VOIDWORKS - WINDOWS X64
Version: 0.5.14

START
1. Extract the whole ZIP into a writable folder.
2. Use a test branch or separate copy of your Voidcrew repository.
3. Double-click Voidworks.exe, click Open Project, and select tgstation.dme.
   You can also drag a project folder, .dme, or .dmm onto Voidworks.exe.
4. Open Ship Workshop or New Ship from the project page or Voidcrew menu.
   Open Map and New Map use the normal Voidworks editor.

The game repository and its icons/maps are required and are not included.
No Go, Rust, BYOND or existing editor installation is needed to run the
editor. Compiling and playing the game still require the game's usual tools.
This build needs 64-bit Windows and a graphics driver supporting OpenGL 3.3.

UPDATES
Voidworks checks for new releases and downloads verified updates in
the background. Choose Update & restart when ready; unsaved work prompts you
to save, discard, or cancel. Your project reopens after the update.
Use Help > Updates & Release Channel to check for updates or switch between
Stable and Beta. Choose a channel, download it, then switch and restart. Beta
includes features still being tested; returning to Stable is supported even
when its version number is lower. Each installation receives updates for its
installed channel. Automatic checks and downloads can be changed in Preferences
> Application. Keep the installation folder writable.
Existing Voidcrew editor settings and backups are copied into the Voidworks
profile on first launch. Older StrongDMM builds need one manual download of
this ZIP after the repository rename. Run Voidworks.exe; future updates use
the Voidworks release channels.

MAP PREVIEW
Open any map and click Preview beside the mapping tools. The separate tab
previews tg bitmask smoothing and estimated lighting on the current Z level,
including unsaved edits. Reopen Preview to capture later edits. Smoothing and
lighting can be toggled independently; Export PNG saves a full-size image.
Powered fixtures assumes intact mapped light fixtures have power.
Exterior light illuminates the exposed hull edges and is enabled by default.
Pan with the middle mouse button or Space; scroll to zoom and use Fit to reset.
The preview does not run the game: custom smoothing code, runtime overlays,
underfloor hiding, power state and multi-Z lighting may differ in game.
Preview never saves these appearances into your map.

SHIP WORKSHOP
1. Choose a ship: open an existing ship or choose Create a new ship.
   For a new ship, enter its name, pick a canvas size, and start building.
   File identifiers and the docking port are created automatically.
2. Build: choose the Part to edit, then place pieces on the assembled map.
   Use the normal Voidworks tools for floors, walls, objects and utilities.
   Use Grab (3) to select tiles, then choose Make an upgrade room or
   Make or assign an area. The selection carries into the action.
   Creating an area with a selection assigns it in the same undoable action.
   Ship areas also lets you create definitions for normal area painting.
   Area assignment preserves floors, walls and objects. New and existing ships
   are supported. The selected hull or module receives the area edits.
   Make an upgrade room keeps walls and flooring in the hull and moves
   furnishings into a module.
3. Review & save: check the current ship and save all changed ships.
   New ships stay hidden from the player ship list while under development.

Room options & ship variants contains alternative room layouts and ship themes.
Choosing a room option also selects that module as the Part to edit.
Names must be unique within the fleet's ship list and each ship's room options,
themes and areas. Capitalization and extra spaces do not make a name unique.
Part costs sets Combat, Science, Trade and Misc quantities for the hull, ship
variants and room options, for both new and existing ships. Choose a component,
enter its costs, then Apply costs and Review & save. Zero means no cost of that
part type. New variants and room options also have costs in their creation form.
Ship details & canvas size contains names, crew, docking and resizing.
Advanced view & source files contains the isolated source view and file paths.
Show whole ship centers the map and adjusts the zoom to fit it on screen.
Scroll to zoom, middle mouse to pan, and Ctrl+Z to undo.
Use View or Ctrl+1/2/3/4 to toggle areas, turfs, objects and mobs.
Ctrl+2 hides floors to reveal piping underneath. Areas starts off in the
workshop; its checkbox and the normal View shortcut control the same setting.

PURCHASE PREVIEWS
Saving ships automatically runs the project's tools/ship_previews generator.
This also applies to hull and module maps saved in normal map tabs. Changed or
missing images render in the background; unchanged images are reused. You can
keep editing or close the editor while it finishes. Failed generation preserves
the previous images and does not undo your ship save.
Status and Retry previews appear in Ship Workshop. Help > Ship Purchase Previews
also shows status, logs and Rebuild all previews. Use a full rebuild after
changing icons or rendering code. Further saves queue another refresh.
Preview tools are included in Voidworks.exe. No Python, Pillow, or dmm-tools
installation is needed. The first preview extracts the tools into the editor's
local profile; later previews reuse them. Your system Python setup is not used.

REMOVING SHIPS AND RUINS
Use Remove ship in Ship Workshop, or right-click its fleet entry. In Ruin
Workshop, select a ruin and choose Remove ruin below its properties.
Review the affected files, then confirm. Shared maps and definitions stay.
Close any affected map tabs first. Linked entries may need their source
references resolved before removal. Anywhere ruins include all their variants.
A recovery ZIP is saved first; use Open recovery folder after removal.
Removal clears Ship Workshop undo history and cannot be undone with Ctrl+Z.

SAVE BEHAVIOR
Saving writes into the checkout you selected. A new ship creates .dmm maps,
its hull/module/theme registrations, a .ship.json project file and .dme
includes. Created room areas use a separate generated .dm file, .areas.json
metadata and a .dme include. Hand-authored ship registrations are preserved.
Save all changes saves every changed ship in this workshop session.
Files edited elsewhere after opening are checked before replacement.
Close ordinary map tabs before opening those same sources in Ship Workshop.

CURRENT LIMITS
Single-deck prototype. Existing hand-authored ships support source-map editing;
new rooms, variants and ship details apply to workshop-created ships.
Preview PNG generation, BYOND compilation and gameplay tests are separate.
The editor's static checks do not establish that a ship is playable.
The executable is unsigned.

CHECK SAVED MAPS
The optional shipcheck.exe command-line utility checks default loadouts and
each alternative module against the other defaults, not every permutation.
It only reads saved maps. From a terminal, run:
  shipcheck.exe -dme "path\to\tgstation.dme" -all > shipcheck.json
Static warnings may already exist in the current fleet; compare before/after.

SEND FEEDBACK
Send feedback to the person who supplied this build, rather than upstream.
Include:
- Build ID above, Windows version and your game branch/commit.
- Whether you were creating a ship or editing an existing one.
- Ship/variant/room and the selected Part to edit.
- Steps, expected result, actual result, and a screenshot if useful.
- Relevant .dmm/.dm/.ship.json diff and any checker report.
- Latest editor log from:
  %APPDATA%\Voidworks\logs
  Review logs before sharing; they can contain local paths.

IF IT CLOSES AT STARTUP
Voidworks.exe reports startup failures in a Windows dialog with the location
of a session log. That log captures the editor output and crash details.
Logs are local and are never uploaded automatically. You can also open the
log folder from Help > Open Logs Folder. Cancelling project selection returns
you to the editor's project page.

SOURCE AND LICENSE
Voidworks is based on StrongDMM. Upstream: https://github.com/SpaiR/StrongDMM
The license is in LICENSE. Matching source, dependency source/notices and
build instructions are in Source.zip. Testers do not need to extract it.
BUILD-INFO.json identifies this package; SHA256SUMS.txt lists file hashes.
